# Spring ORM

Is Springs Object Relation Mapping framework

Spring ORM supports Hibernate, Java Data Objects (JDO), Java Persistence API (JPA), and more

We use Spring ORM to handle Hibernate for us

You configure Spring ORM in the same beans.xml file that you configure your beans in

Benefits of Spring ORM:

-   Easier testing
-   Data Access Exceptions Wrapping
-   Resource Management
-   Integration Transaction Management

# MVC Architecture

Model View Controller Design Pattern, a it is a design pattern that is used to design user interfaces, and the structure of an application

It is a design pattern primarily used for server side rendering, or where a user sends a request to the web server, and it returns a pre-created/rendered html page

Model: User to represent the business layer if the application. AKA, the data layer which defines the bussiness logic of the system, abd represents the state of the application

View: The presentation layer/ui of the application. It displays the data that is fected from the model by the controller

Controller: Is the link between the View and the model. It receives user requests from the view, and talkes to the model layer, then returns that data back to the view

The advantage of breaking our application up into layers like this is so multiple developers can work on different layers all at the same time

It also enables logical grouping of related actions on a controller together

In our training, we will NOT strictly be following the MVC design pattern, we will be implementing the Model, and Controller peices of this pattern, the View will be come from HTML pages being dynamically changed by Javascript, and eventually the Angular Library.

To achieve a more restful client-server architecture we will be implementing the Front Controller Design Pattern

# Spring MVC

Spring MVC is a request driven structure centered around a central Servlet using the front controller design pattern

# Spring MVC Annotations

## @Controller:

will mark the class as a controller, which is a special kind of spring bean that handles requests, the dispatcher will scan for these classes, and send requests to the correct controller

## @RequestMapping:

used to map a uri to a specific class, or to a specific method inside of a controller, you can also include the http method if it is over a method

## @RequestBody:

use this annotation to gain access to the object sent with the request

## @ResponseBody:

this annotation will automatically convert the return of the method to the correct json object to send in the response back to the client

## @RestController:

a class level annotation that combines @RequestMapping and @ResponseBody, allows you to return from the controller methods normally, without a ResponseBody annotation

We will be seeing these annotations again once we get into SpringBoot

## Path Paremeters and Query Parameters

Path Parameters and Query Parameters are ways to send information to the server without using a POST request, these should only be used to send information that is none confidential. To set these up you use the @RequestParam and @PathVariable in the method parameters

Path Variable allows you to add a value after the last slash of the request uri, ex `http://url/get/variable`

Query Parameters use a ? in the uri then you define the parameters you are sending over, ex `http:url/get?var=name`

# Overview of AOP and cross cutting concerns

AOP stands for Aspect Oriented Programming, instead of cocerning ourselves with objects, we focus on Aspects, which modularize particular concerns which can present across multiple classes, known as cross cutting concerns

Examples include:

-   Database access
-   data entities
-   error handling
-   logging

AOP and Cross Cutting Concerns help reduce code redundancy by transfering responsibilty of these common problems to aspects.

AOP terminology:

-   _Aspect_ - A representation of a concern which cuts across multiple classes.
-   _Weaving_ - The process of linking aspects with other objects, such as beans, to create advised objects. This can be done at compile time (such as when using the AspectJ compiler), load time or runtime. Spring performs weaving at Runtime.
-   _Join Point_ - A specified moment during the execution of a program, such as the invocation of a method, in which actions can be taken.
-   _Advice_ - Action taken by an aspect at a specified Join point.
-   _Pointcut_ - A definition of which methods in our application advice ought to be injected into or around, for example, when a method of a certain name is executed. By default, spring uses AspectJ pointcut expression language.
-   _Introduction_ - Declaration of new interfaces and corresponding implementations in subclasses of any advised object. Introductions use the `@DeclareParents` annotation with the _defaultImpl_ attribute to define a default concrete class for the bean definition.

# Aspect J

@AspectJ refers to a style of declaring aspects through the use of regular Java classes with annotations. @AspectJ style was introduced in the AspectJ 5 release of the AspectJ Project. Note that Spring interprets the same annotations as AspectJ 5, using a library supplied by AspjectJ, however Spring's AOP runtime is not dependent on the AspectJ compiler or weaver.

To utilize @AspectJ aspects in a Spring configuration, you need to enable support for configuring the Spring AOP based on @AspectJ aspects and autoproxying beans which are advised by those aspects. Autoproxying means that Spring will automatically generate a proxy to intercept method invocations when a bean is advised by one or more aspects to ensure that advice is executed as needed.

@AspectJ configurations can be enabled using either XML or Java-based Spring configuration. In either case, you will need to make sure that the AspectJ aspectweaver.jar is on your application's classpath (version 1.6.8 or later is required for Spring 4.0.x).

# Spring AOP:
A Spring module that utilizes Aspect J to easily implement AOP principles in Java

# Cross cutting concerns:
parts of a program that rely on, or must affect many other parts of the system

# Advice:

Like mentioned above, advice is specific actions taken, defined as a method, at a particular point during the execution of a program

There are 5 types of advice:

-   **Before** - Advice that will execute before a join point, but does not have the capability to halt the normal execution of the proceeding join point (unless an exception is thrown)
-   **After Returning** - Advice that will execute after a join point completes without throwing an exception
-   **After Throwing** - Advice that will execute if a join point throws an exception.
-   **After (finally)** - Advice that will execute regardless of how the join point completes, whether normal or by throwing an exception.
-   **Around** - Advice that will execute before and after the join point. Around advice is the most general, but also most powerful kind of advice, as it can perform custom behavior before and after method invocation, and can be responsible for choosing whether to proceed to the join point method execution or shortcut the advised method by returning its own value or throwing an exception. In general it is recommended to use the least powerful type of advise for any particular task. For instance, if you only need to update a cache with a value returned from a method, it is best to use the _After Returning_ advice type.

# Pointcut and Join Points

Pointcuts determine joinpoints, because they define which methods in our application advice ought to be injected into or around

Joinpoints are the specific moment during the execution of a pogram in which the advice can be taken

Pointcuts are comprised of a name, and any parameters, and keep in mind these determine EXACTLY which method execution we are interested in

To create them we use the @Pointcut annotation with regular method signatures, these include:

-   execution
-   within
-   this
-   target
-   args
-   @target
-   @args
-   @within
-   @annotation

Execution is the most widely used, and you can use patterns with wildcards to specify a joinpoint

```java
execution(modifiers-pattern? ret-type-pattern declaring-type-pattern? name-pattern(param-pattern) throws-pattern?)
```

# AOP Demo