# Annotations for model classes

There are two ways to map a class to a database table in Hibernate

-   Using annotation
-   Using XML Mapping files

It is a more modern approach to use Class anotations, because you have less XML files in your project, and it makes your project easier to follow.

Hibernate annotations provide a nice easy way to define mappings directly in your POJO classes without any use of XML files.

Hibernate annotations are based on the JPA 2 specifications, so you should be using the annotations that are defined in the javax.perstistnace package

A list of common annotations includes:

-   **`@Entity`** - Used to mark a class as a Mapped class/Persistence class. This class **must** have a no-arg constructor with package visibility so that hibernate can create an instance of the Persistent class by the `newInstance()` method.

-   **`@Table`** - Used to specify the table details that used to persist the entity in the database. If the name of the database table differs from the name of the class, the name attribute should be used.

-   **`@Id`** - Used to mark the field as a primary key column. Annotating multiple fields with @Id will make them composite keys

-   **`@GeneratedValue`** - Used to instruct the database to generate a value for the field automatically, and to provide a strategy for doing so.

-   **`@Column`** - Maps the field to the table column. The `@Column` annotation has attributes listed below:

    -   **`name`** - used to specify the name of the column. By default, it's assumed the column name and variable name match. This attribute is required if that is not the case.
    -   **`length`** - used to specify the size of the String value
    -   **`nullable`** - used to mark the column as NOT NULL when the schema is generated.
    -   **`unique`** - used to mark the column as UNIQUE to contain unique values.

# Native SQL

Native SQL allows you to write regular Database specific queries

It is not recomended to you Native SQL because it will tightly couple your program with your database

To create a Native SQL query you would use Session.createNativeQuery()

Native queries return a List of Objects arrays which we need to explicitly cast to the correct datatype, to aviod this you can use .addScalar()

The .addEntity() method is used to get entity objects from Native SQL queries

The .addJoin() method is used to fetch data from an associated table using a join

# HQL

HQL stands for Hibernate Query Language, it is a object oriented query language, that allows you to query against persistent objects instead of tables and columns

Hibernate automatically translates the HQL queries into native SQL using the sql dialect you have chosen

-   This helps decouple our code from the database, because you can simply change the dialect at anytime

HQL is case sensitive for properties like table and column names, but not for keywords like SELECT, FROM...

Advantages of HQL:

-   Support of OOP concepts like Polymorphism, inheritance, and abstraction
-   Database independent and easy to learn

# Criteria API

The Criteria API is a programatic and typesafe way to fetch data from a relational database.

Instead of writing query strings, you use methods on the Criteria object to fectch data

You find the interface in the javax.persistence.criteria package, and can create a criteria object with a CriteriaBuilder

The Criteria interface provides:

-   An easy way to programatically create queries
-   An easy way to order result sets
-   Pagination, and more