Week8/README.md, before:

# Day 1

## Activities:

Quiz/Project 2 Work

## Questions

### 1. What is Typescript?

### 2. What are some features of typescript?

### 3. What are some advantages to using typescript?

### 4. How do you install typescript onto your computer?

### 5. How do you compile a ts file?

### 6. What are the available datatypes in typescript?

### 7. How do you create a variable in typescript?

### 8. How do you create a class in typscript?

### 9. What are the access modifiers for a typescript class?

### 10. What is a typescript module?

### 11. How do you create a typescript module?

### 12. What is the purport of an interface in typescript?

### 13. What are decorators in typescript?

### 14. What types of decorators are there in typescript?

## Day 2.

## Activities:

Angular Hands on 1:

### As a team do the following:

### 1. Create an angular application

### 2. Create a team page in the angular application to display information about the team members

### 3. Create a new interface with the following properties: name: string, fact: string, truthAndLie: string[]

### 4. In an array in the main component, store an object of the above type for each member of your team

### 5. Create a new component that can hold the information about the team member

### 6. Using binding, and component communication, display a component for each member of the team, binding the informtion from the array created earlier to each component

Project 2 Work

## Questions:

### 1. What is a single page application?

### 2. What are some advantages of an SPA?

### 3. What are some disadvantages of an SPA?

### 4. What is AngularJS vs Angular 4+

### 5. What are some main differences between AngularJS and Angular 4+

### 6. What are the main building blocks of an angular application?

### 7. What is the Angular CLI?

### 8. How do you install the Angular CLI?

### 9. How do you create a new Angular project?

### 10. How do you start running the angular application?

### 11. Where is the source code of the application stored?

### 12. What is webpack?

### 13. What are angular modules?

### 14. What is the main module of an angular application?

### 15. What is the bootstrapping process in angular?

### 16. What are components in Angular?

### 17. How do you mark a component?

### 18. How can you have angular CLI generate a component for you?

### 19. What are the properties of the @Component decorator?

### 20. What is the purpose of the component lifecycle in angular?

### 21. What are some of the hooks available for the Lifecycle?

### 22. What is databinding in Angular?

### 23. What are the ways in which we can perform one way data binding?

## Day 3.

### Activities:

P2 Work

### Questions

### 1. What is two way data binding?

### 2. How is two way data binding achieved?

### 3. What is a popular use of two way data binding?

### 4. What are event emitters?

### 5. How do you use event emitters?

### 6. What are structural directives?

### 7. What are some different structural directives?

### 8. What are attribute directives?

### 9. What are some different attribute directives?

## Day 4.

### Activities:

P2

### Questions:

### 1. What is routing in a SPA?

### 2. How do you setup routing in Angular?

### 3. What are services?

### 4. Why do we use services in Angular?

### 5. How do we inject services into Angular components?

### 6. How do you create a service in Angular?

### 7. What is the pub/sub design pattern?

### 8. What is HttpClient?

### 9. How and where do you use the HttpClient?

### 10. How do you handle errors with HttpClient?

### 11. What are Observables?

### 12. How do you use an Observable?

### 13. What is the difference between an Observable and a Promise?

### 14. What are Subjects?

### 15. What are the different types of subjects?

### 16. What are pipes in Angular?

### 17. What are some different built in pipes?

Commit message:

ready for the hands on

Week8/README.md, after:

# Day 1

## Activities:

Quiz/Project 2 Work

## Questions

### 1. What is Typescript?

### 2. What are some features of typescript?

### 3. What are some advantages to using typescript?

### 4. How do you install typescript onto your computer?

### 5. How do you compile a ts file?

### 6. What are the available datatypes in typescript?

### 7. How do you create a variable in typescript?

### 8. How do you create a class in typscript?

### 9. What are the access modifiers for a typescript class?

### 10. What is a typescript module?

### 11. How do you create a typescript module?

### 12. What is the purport of an interface in typescript?

### 13. What are decorators in typescript?

### 14. What types of decorators are there in typescript?

## Day 2.

## Activities:

Angular Hands on 1:

### As a team do the following:

### 1. Create an angular application

### 2. Create a team page in the angular application to display information about the team members

### 3. Create a new interface with the following properties: name: string, fact: string, truthAndLie: string[]

### 4. In an array in the main component, store an object of the above type for each member of your team

### 5. Create a new component that can hold the information about the team member

### 6. Using binding, and component communication, display a component for each member of the team, binding the informtion from the array created earlier to each component

Project 2 Work

## Questions:

### 1. What is a single page application?

### 2. What are some advantages of an SPA?

### 3. What are some disadvantages of an SPA?

### 4. What is AngularJS vs Angular 4+

### 5. What are some main differences between AngularJS and Angular 4+

### 6. What are the main building blocks of an angular application?

### 7. What is the Angular CLI?

### 8. How do you install the Angular CLI?

### 9. How do you create a new Angular project?

### 10. How do you start running the angular application?

### 11. Where is the source code of the application stored?

### 12. What is webpack?

### 13. What are angular modules?

### 14. What is the main module of an angular application?

### 15. What is the bootstrapping process in angular?

### 16. What are components in Angular?

### 17. How do you mark a component?

### 18. How can you have angular CLI generate a component for you?

### 19. What are the properties of the @Component decorator?

### 20. What is the purpose of the component lifecycle in angular?

### 21. What are some of the hooks available for the Lifecycle?

### 22. What is databinding in Angular?

### 23. What are the ways in which we can perform one way data binding?

## Day 3.

### Activities:

P2 Work

### Questions

### 1. What is two way data binding?

### 2. How is two way data binding achieved?

### 3. What is a popular use of two way data binding?

### 4. What are event emitters?

### 5. How do you use event emitters?

### 6. What are structural directives?

### 7. What are some different structural directives?

### 8. What are attribute directives?

### 9. What are some different attribute directives?

## Day 4.

### Activities:

### Angular Hands on:

Create an angular application which displays a random useless fact
- The application must make use of:
    - Multiple components
    - A service
    - HttpClient and Observables
    - Make calls to the Random Useless Facts API
        - https://uselessfacts.jsph.pl/

- When the application loads, display the random fact of the day
- Create a button which can then load a random fact, replacing the fact of the day
- You should be able to retrieve a new random fact as many times as you like

P2

### Questions:

### 1. What is routing in a SPA?

### 2. How do you setup routing in Angular?

### 3. What are services?

### 4. Why do we use services in Angular?

### 5. How do we inject services into Angular components?

### 6. How do you create a service in Angular?

### 7. What is the pub/sub design pattern?

### 8. What is HttpClient?

### 9. How and where do you use the HttpClient?

### 10. How do you handle errors with HttpClient?

### 11. What are Observables?

### 12. How do you use an Observable?

### 13. What is the difference between an Observable and a Promise?

### 14. What are Subjects?

### 15. What are the different types of subjects?

### 16. What are pipes in Angular?

### 17. What are some different built in pipes?
